
in the previous video we learned how to respond with HTML.
we created an HTML file.


used the fs module.
to read the file contents and pipe it as a response.


now this is great for static HTML Pages where the content does not change.


however you will come across a situation where you need to add some Dynamic values into the HTML.


for example let's say we need to display the logged in user's name.
how do we inject the username into our HTML.


well for our understanding we are going to use the most basic solution which is string replacement.



in this video Let's understand how to use a given HTML template and inject some Dynamic values through string replacement.


within the request listener I'm going to remove FS dot create read stream and go back to read file sync as we need to handle this a little different.

first let me declare a constant.
name and set it equal to the string vishwas.


this is the value that we need to display in our HTML.
so in the HTML file I'm going to add hello curly braces name welcome to node.


what we now have to do is replace name in double curly braces with the name constant in our JavaScript file.


and as I mentioned already we are going to rely on simple string replacement.


after reading the file contents and storing it in the HTML constant I'm going to change const HTML to let HTML which stores the file contents.


in the next line I'm going to update HTML to be HTML dot replace.
and we're going to replace name inside double curly braces.


with the name constant vishwas.
we send the updated HTML as response.


if you now save the file restart node index.
refresh the browser.

we should see the expected output hello vishwas welcome to node.
so we are able to create one HTML template but have Dynamic values from JavaScript.


really simple as you can see.
so that is about working with HTML templates.


in the next video let's learn about routing with the HTTP server.
thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next one"