
((((("in this video let's take a look at the fs module in node.))))))


((((("the file system module allows you to work with the file system on your computer.
let's understand how to work with that.))))))


((((("I'm here in index.js which is our main module it is empty to begin with to make use of a built-in module we first have to import it and to import a built-in module we use the require function.))))))


((((("so at the top const FS is equal to require node colon FS.
here FS is the name of our built-in module.))))))


((((("once we have the module loaded we can access the various properties and methods exposed by the fs module.
for our first method let's learn how to read the contents of a file.))))))


((((("I'm going to create a new file calledfile.txt.
within the file I'm going to add.))))))


((((("hello code Evolution as text.
now back in index.js on the fs object returned from the fs module.))))))


((((("we're going to invoke a method called read file sync.
to this method we pass in the path to the file we want to read.))))))


((((("if you're happy with relative Parts itis as simple as dot slash file Dot txd.
we can capture the return value in a constant called file contents.))))))


((((("and log it to the console.
if we run node index we see we have a buffer with binary data.))))))


((((("to view it in human readable format.
let's set a second argumentutf-8 which is the encoding.))))))


((((("now if we save the file and rerun node index we see Hello code evolution which is the file content.
hopefully you're now able to relate back to the video about binary data buffers and encoding and how it is relevant to understanding FS module.))))))


((((("the fs module internally uses the buffer.
now you might have noticed the method name is read file sync.))))))


((((("here the suffix sync is very important.
this basically tells us the method is asynchronous way of reading a file.))))))


((((("in other words JavaScript engine will wait till the file contents are read before moving on to the next line.
now it might be okay to block the JavaScript main thread and read data If that is essential for code written further down the line.))))))


((((("for example reading configuration data from a file and using it further down the line.))))))


((((("however more often than not you don't want this synchronous Behavior.))))))


((((("if you have a lot of concurrent users and the file size is large they will be blocked for some time as JavaScript is single threaded and synchronous.))))))


((((("the performance will be really poor.
now I hinted towards this in the previous video but what you have to keep in mind is that node.js is 
asynchronous.))))))


((((("it has features to do tasks asynchronously without blocking the main thread.
and for that reason another method exists on the fs object which is the read file method.))))))


((((("let's understand its syntax.
so FS dot read file.))))))


((((("and the first argument is the file path which is dot slash file Dot txt.
the second argument is a callback function which will be invoked after the file contents have been read.))))))


((((("remember a function that is passed as an argument to another function is a callback function.
this function receives two parameters error and data.))))))


((((("error is the error that was identified when reading the file if there was any.
if there was no error on the other hand it is set to null and data is populated with the file contents.))))))


((((("this pattern of using callbacks were the first argument is the error is called error first callback pattern.
something you will find commonly used innode.js.))))))


((((("now within the function body if there is an error.
let's log it to the console.))))))


((((("if there is no error let's log data to the console.
now if we rerun node index we see Hello code Evolution from our sync read and the same buffer object with binary data from our asynchronous read.))))))


((((("we can pass in utf-8 as the second argument which is our encoding.
now we run node index.))))))


((((("and we see Hello code evolution in both the cases.
So reading File synchronously versus reading file asynchronously.))))))


((((("in fact let's prove this method is asynchronous by adding a few log statements.
at the top add a log statement.))))))


((((("First in between the two file reads let's add a log statement second and at the end a log statement third.
if we now run node index we see first output from the read file sync method second third and then output from 
read file.))))))


((((("so what node does is keep track of this callback function and allows for further code to be executed.
when the file reading is complete node will then execute the Callback function.))))))


((((("it doesn't matter if it's a huge file which can even take five seconds rest of the code continues to execute.
and because of this asynchronous callback approach your app will not freeze when multiple users interact with 
the application.))))))


((((("hopefully the log statements make sense.
now there are quite a few methods available on the fs module but let's take a look at one more just to get the 
hang of things.))))))


((((("let's see how to write contents into a file we are going to be using the write file method which has both sync and async versions.))))))


((((("let's start with synchronous FS dot write file sync.
first argument is the path to the file.))))))

((((("let's specify greet.txt and the second argument is the file contents let's add a string hello world.
if we now run node index.))))))

((((("you can see a new file greet.txt has been created with hello world as the contents.
pretty simple right.))))))


((((("let's now take a look at the async version.
FS dot write file and the first argument Remains the Same file name which is dot slash greet Dot txt followed by file contents.))))))


((((("hello vishwas now we specify the third argument which is our error first callback.
within the function body check for an error.))))))


((((("and if it exists log it to the console.
if there is no error the contents have been written to the file and we can log a message that says so.))))))


((((("rerun node index and this time we see file written in the log statements.
open greet.txt and we see the updated text hello vishwas.))))))


((((("by default write file overwrites the file contents.
this is the reason hello world has been overwritten with hello vishwas.))))))


((((("however if you want to append to the existing content you can add an option as a third argument.
it's an object where we set flag as append.))))))


((((("now if I add a space before hello vishwas save the file and run node index.
we have Hello World a space and then hello vishwas.))))))


((((("both content exist in the file.
now if you're wondering as to why hello code evolution is locked at the very end it just so happened in this ))))))

((((("run reading the file took a lot more time than writing to the file.
and we will learn more about this in the section on asynchronous node under the hood.))))))


((((("but let me be very honest in saying wrapping your head around asynchronous code is not easy.
if this is the first time you're encountering this code please do re-watch the video if you have to.))))))


((((("but for now let me summarize what we have learned.
in node we rely on the fs module to work with the file system we can use the read file sync method to read ))))))


((((("file contents but that will block execution and potentially hang execution when multiple users interact with the app.))))))


((((("the recommended approach is to use read file.
which does not block execution while the file contents are being read.))))))


((((("rest of the code is executed and whennode.js gets a signal that the file has been read it will execute the Callback function.))))))


((((("if that was an error while reading the file the error argument is set.
if there was no error error is null and data is set.))))))


((((("you can use data for processing the file contents if necessary.
we also had a look at the right file sync.))))))


((((("and write file methods to write contents into a new file if the file does not exist a new file is created if the file exists the contents are overwritten.))))))


((((("you can also add a flag to append contents instead of overwriting.
now although this callback based read file and write file methods do the job node decided to add a promise based version of the fs module which we can use in our applet's learn about that in the next video.))))))
 


((((("thank you for watching please do consider subscribing to the channel and I'll see you in the next one.))))))
