okay, in this last video I'd want to summarise our progress so far and offer some advice on how to proceed.
(((((((("all right for the final video in the series I want to recap what we have learned and suggest where to go from here.

The first step was to devote an entire chapter to defining node.js.
In Chapter 2, Node.js Modules were covered in depth.
(((((((("we started off by spending an entire section to understand what is node.js.
in section 2 we learned about modules innode.js.

modules created by the user Specifically, in Sections 3 and 4, we studied the standard modules that come preinstalled with Node.js, like the path FS events module and the http module.
(((((((("user defined modules to be more specific in Section 3 and 4 we learned about the core built-in modules that node.js ships with such as path FS events and http.

In Section 5, we dissected a node to see how it was put together.In js., we had a firm grasp of the event Loop and the Libuv thread pool.
(((((((("in Section 5 we had a closer look at the internals of node.js.
we understood in detail about Libuv thread pool and the event Loop.

In Chapter 6, you were introduced to NPM and shown how to install and utilise external modules.
In Chapter Seven, you saw how to use Node.js and NPM to create a CLI app.
(((((((("in section 6 we learned about npm and how to work with third-party modules.
in section 7 we learned how to build a command line interface tool using node and npm.

Last but not least, we discussed a few ancillary subjects, including clusters, worker threads, and the deployment of an anode.js application.
(((((((("finally in the last section we covered a few miscellaneous topics such as clusters worker threads and deploying anode.js application.

I'm hoping that by the end of the series, you'll have a much firmer grasp of the ideas than you had at the outset.
What should you do next?
(((((((("I hope you have a much better understanding of the concepts now than you did before starting the series.
now where do you go from here.

OK, I'll throw out a few ideas; express.js is the first one that comes to me.
A web framework that use node.js as its foundation.
The next section will cover simply or retest, which may be used to create unit tests for your programme.
(((((((("well let me suggest a few topics first I would suggest express.js.
it is a web framework built on top ofnode.js.
the next topic is just or retest you can use these to write unit tests for your application.

Type script, which may be added to your node, is another interesting possibility.The amount of defects in your js app will decrease, and refactoring will be much simpler.
(((((((("another great topic to consider is type script adding types to your node.js app will greatly reduce the number of bugs you might come across and re factoring becomes a whole lot easier.

Of course, I plan to make films covering these subjects in the not-too-distant future.
(((((((("of course I will be creating videos on these topics sometime in the near future.

Meanwhile, if you've enjoyed the node.js series and found it useful, a like and a subscribe would go a long way towards helping the channel rise in the YouTube rankings.
Please enjoy the video, and till next time, take care.
(((((((("in the meantime if you have enjoyed the series on node.js and found it helpful please do consider leaving a like and subscribing to the channel as it helps out a lot with the YouTube algorithm.
as always thank you for watching and until next time take care'

