
((((("Welcome back for our final built-in module we're going to take a look at the HTTP module.


((((("however before we understand what the HTTP module is about.
 let's briefly understand how the web works.


((((("or in simple terms let's understand what happens when you type a URL in a web browser on your computer.
let's start with the concept of clients and servers.


((((("computers connected to the internet are called clients and servers.


((((("clients are internet connected devices such as computers or mobile phones along with web accessing software available on those devices such as a web browser.


((((("servers on the other hand are computers that store web pages sites or applications.
when you type a URL in the browser the client device requests access to a webpage.


((((("a copy of the web page is downloaded from the server and sent as a response to the client to be displayed in the web browser.


((((("this model is popularly called the client server model.
now we understand that there is data transfer between the client and the server.


((((("but in what format is that data.
what if the request sent by the client cannot be understood by the server.


((((("Or what if the response sent by the server cannot be understood by the client.
well this is where HTTP comes into picture.


((((("HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocol and is a protocol that defines a format for clients and servers to speak to each other.


((((("a client sends an HTTP request and the server responds with an HTTP response.
this is how the web works at a very high level.

((((("now where does node fit in.
well as it turns out we can create a webserver using node.js.


((((("node has access to operating system functionality like networking and given the fact that node has an event Loop to run tasks asynchronously.


((((("it is perfect for creating web servers that can simultaneously handle large volumes of requests.
of course the node server we create still has to respect the HTTP format.


((((("and for that we use the built-in HTTP module.
the HTTP module allows creation of webservers that can transfer data over http.


((((("and this is probably the moment you have all been waiting for.
to learn how to create a server using node.js well let's take a look at the code in the next video.


